# What does curl do?

cURL is a project and its primary purpose and focus is to make Internet
transfer related Open Source products:

- curl, the command-line tool

- libcurl the transfer library with a C API

- trurl, the URL parser and manipulation tool

- wcurl, the simple downloader tool

Everything and anything that is related to client-side Internet protocol
transfers can be considered curl's business. Things that are not related to
that should be avoided and be left for other projects and products.

It could be important to also consider that curl and libcurl try to avoid
handling the actual data that is transferred. It has, for example, no knowledge
about HTML or anything else of the content that is popular to transfer over
HTTP, but it knows all about how to transfer such data over HTTP.

curl products are frequently used not only to drive thousands or millions of
scripts and applications for an Internet connected world, but they are also
widely used for server testing, protocol fiddling and trying out new things.

## curl, the command line tool

Running curl from the command line was natural and Daniel never considered
anything else than that it would output data on stdout, to the terminal, by
default. The "everything is a pipe" mantra of standard Unix philosophy was
something Daniel believed in. curl is like 'cat' or one of the other Unix
tools; it sends data to stdout to make it easy to chain together with other
tools to do what you want. That is also why virtually all curl options that
allow reading from a file or writing to a file, also have the ability to
select doing it to stdout or from stdin.

Following the Unix style of how command-line tools work, there was also never
any question about whether curl should support multiple URLs on the command
line.

The command-line tool is designed to work perfectly from scripts or other
automatic means. It does not feature any other GUI or UI other than mere text
in and text out.

## libcurl, the library

While the command-line tool came first, the network engine was ripped out and
converted into a library during the year 2000 and the concepts we still have
today were introduced with libcurl 7.1 in August 2000. Since then, the command
line tool has been a thin layer of logic to make a tool around the
library that does all the heavy lifting.

libcurl is designed and meant to be available for anyone who wants to add
client-side file transfer capabilities to their software, on any platform, any
architecture and for any purpose. libcurl is also extremely liberally licensed
to avoid that becoming an obstacle.

libcurl is written in traditional and conservative C. Where other languages
are preferred, people have created libcurl [bindings](../bindings/)
for them.

The library is used in every imaginable sort of embedded device where Internet
transfers are needed: car infotainment, televisions, Blu-Ray players, set-top
boxes, printers, routers, game systems, etc.

## trurl, a URL tool

Managing, parsing and handling URLs is tricky. Not only because URLs are
insufficiently standardized so that different parsers tend to parse the same
URL differently, but also simply because the syntax of them are hard to get
right.

trurl is a command line tool to help users parse, generate and manipulate URLs
in scripts and on command lines. By using trurl, scripts can get extract
details from URLs safely, update URLs or create URLs without having to figure
out the intricacies of the URL standards.

An extra reason for using trurl in combination with curl, is that trurl is
built using libcurl, meaning that both tools use the same URL parser and
therefore understand and treat URLs exactly the same way. This is important
because using mixed URL parsers on the same URL is a common reason for
security vulnerabilities.

## wcurl, a URL downloader

For many years it has been said and people have reported that using curl to
download URLs is difficult because they can never remember the exact command
line options to make curl do just that: download a single URL or two into a
local file. People would cite that as the primary reason they still use
alternative command line tools for that use case.

wcurl is the command line tool that simply downloads URLs without the user
having to remember any parameter at all.
